# The-Happiness-Project
The goal of this project is to explore what makes people happy. 
I will be exploring dataset on World Happiness Report 2020 based on global survey of 156 countries based on data collected through surveys from 2017-19 conducted by Gallup World Poll.The survey asked repondants to rate their life on multiple parameters on a scale from 0 to 10, with 10 being the best and 0 being the worst, called the Cantril ladder.The six determinants were GDP per person, healthy life expectancy, social support, perceived freedom to make life choice, generosity and perception of corruption.Furthermore, the report defines Dystopia as an imaginary country with the worst possible score in all variables and the dystopia residual factor captures the three-year avergae lowest score of 1.97 and the unexplained variation from each of the six determinants.

In my project, I will add another variable, income ineqaulity within each country, as measured by the Gini Coefficient.Per-capita GDP captures the economic well being of the residents of a country but the GDP is not equitably distributed within the country. My hypothesis is that when people are asked about their economic well being, the disparities in income will influence their perception and hence their happiness score. One way to test this hypothesis is to see if the residual decreases if we add an additional explanatory variable.

In order to find out the effect of income inequality in a country to its happiness score, I will combine the previous happiness data set with Gini coeffients data from the Worls Bank for various countries, for the latest year that is available. I will add the Gini coefficient information from the CIA World Factbook to supplement the data for countries where World Bank data is not available.  The Gini coefficents will be scaled from 0 (perfect equality) to 1 (perfect inequality).
